<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>SoundManager 2 Template</title>
<style type="text/css">
#soundmanager-debug {
 /* SM2 debug container (optional, use or customize this as you like - makes in-browser debug output more useable) */
 position:fixed;_position:absolute;right:1em;bottom:1em;width:50em;height:18em;overflow:auto;background:#fff;margin:1em;padding:1em;border:1px solid #999;font-family:monaco,"lucida console",verdana,tahoma,"sans serif";font-size:x-small;line-height:1.5em;opacity:0.9;filter:alpha(opacity=90);
}
</style>
<!-- some CSS for this demo page, not required for SM2 -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="template.css" />

<!-- SM2 BAREBONES TEMPLATE: START -->

<!-- include SM2 library -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../script/soundmanager2.js"></script>

<!-- And now, customize it! -->
<script type="text/javascript">

soundManager.setup({
  // debugMode: false, // disable debug output
  url: '../../swf/', // path to directory containing SoundManager2 .SWF file
  flashVersion: 8,
  useFlashBlock: false, // skip for now. See the flashblock demo when you want to start getting fancy.
  onready: function() {
    // soundManager.createSound() etc. may now be called
    soundManager._writeDebug('soundManager.onready() - your code executes here');
  }
});

</script>

<!-- SM2 BAREBONES TEMPLATE: END -->

</head>

<body style="height:100%">

<div style="margin-right:43em">
 <h1>SoundManager 2 Template Example</h1>
 <p>This is a basic template for adding SoundManager to your page.</p> 
 <h2>How it works</h2>
 <p>This page includes the SM2 script, which starts up on its own as appropriate. By default it will try to start as soon as possible.</p>
 <p>The minimal code needed to get SoundManager 2 going is below, with <em><em>configurable parts</em></em>:</p>
<code>
<pre>
<span>&lt;!-- include SM2 library --&gt;</span>
&lt;script type="text/javascript" src="<em><em>/path/to/soundmanager2.js</em></em>"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;

<span>&lt;!-- configure it for your use --&gt;</span>
&lt;script type="text/javascript"&gt;

soundManager.setup({
  url: '<em><em>/path/to/sm2-flash-files/</em></em>', <span>// directory where SM2 .SWFs live</span>

  <span>/*
   * Note that SoundManager will determine and append the appropriate .SWF file to the URL,
   * eg. /path/to/sm2-flash-files/soundmanager2.swf automatically.
   * You should not put soundmanager2.swf in there yourself.
  */</span>

  <span>// Beta-ish HTML5 audio support (force-enabled for iPad), flash-free sound for Safari + Chrome. Enable if you want to try it!</span>
  <span>// useHTML5Audio: true,</span>

  <span>// do this to skip flash block handling for now. See the <a href="../flashblock/" title="SoundManager 2 flashblock handling demo" onclick="if (!document.domain && !this.href.match(/index/i)) this.href=this.href+'index.html'">flashblock demo</a> when you want to start getting fancy.</span>
  useFlashBlock: false,

  <span>// disable debug mode after development/testing..</span>
  <span>// debugMode: false</span>

});

<span style="background:#eee;padding:0.25em">// Option 1: Simple onready() + createSound() method</span>

soundManager.onready(function() {
  <span>// SM2 has loaded - now you can create and play sounds!</span>
  <em><em>soundManager.createSound('helloWorld','/path/to/hello-world.mp3');
  soundManager.play('helloWorld');</em></em>
});

<span style="background:#eee;padding:0.25em">// Option 2 (better): More flexible onready() + createSound() method</span>

soundManager.onready(function() {<em><em>

  var mySound = soundManager.createSound({
    id: 'aSound',
    url: '/path/to/an.mp3'
    <span>// onload: <span>[ event handler function object ],</span></span>
    <span>// other options here..</span>
  });

  mySound.play();

</em></em>});

<span style="background:#eee;padding:0.25em">// Option 3 (best): onready() + createSound() / ontimeout() methods for success/failure:</span>

soundManager.onready(function() {<em><em>

  <span>// SM2 has loaded - now you can create and play sounds!</span>
  var mySound = soundManager.createSound({
    id: 'aSound',
    url: '/path/to/an.mp3'
    <span>// onload: <span>[ event handler function object ],</span></span>
    <span>// other options here..</span>
  });
  mySound.play();

</em></em>});

soundManager.ontimeout(function() {<em><em>

  <span>// (Optional) Hrmm, SM2 could not start. Show an error, etc.?</span>

</em></em>});


&lt;/script&gt;</pre></code>

 <h2 id="flashblock-handling">Handling flash blockers</h2>
 <p>It's good to let users see the flash component of SM2, so those with flash blockers can unblock it and allow SM2 to start. For more info on this, see the <a href="../flashblock/" title="SoundManager 2 with Flash block handling" onclick="if (!document.domain && !this.href.match(/index/i)) this.href=this.href+'index.html'">Flashblock</a> example.</p>

 <h2>Making SM2 wait for <code>window.onload()</code></h2>
 <p>If you prefer to have the library wait for <code>window.onload()</code> before making <code>onready()</code> / <code>ontimeout()</code> callbacks, you can specify <code>waitForWindowLoad: true</code>.</p>

 <h2 style="margin-top:1em">Disabling debug output</h2>
 <p>SoundManager 2 will write debug output via <code>console.log()</code> if available, by default. To disable it, simply specify <code>debugMode: false</code>.</p>
 <p>You can also write HTML-based debug output to the DOM via <code>consoleOnly: false</code> and/or <code>useConsole: false</code>.</p>
 <p>To see related configuration code, refer to the source of this page which basically does all of the above "for real."</p>

 <h2>Troubleshooting ("failed to start": Viewing offline, missing SWF, flash blockers etc.)</h2>
 <p>If SM2 is failing to start and throwing errors due to flash security, timeouts or other issues, check out the <a href="../../doc/getstarted/#troubleshooting" title="SoundManager 2 troubleshooting tool" onclick="checkDomain()">troubleshooting tool</a> for tips.</p>

 <h2>No-debug, compressed version of soundmanager2.js</h2>
 <p>Once development is finished, you can also use the "minified" (down to ~8% of original size with gzip!) version of SM2, which has debug output and comments removed for you: <a href="../../script/soundmanager2-nodebug-jsmin.js">soundmanager2-nodebug-jsmin.js</a>. Serve with gzip compression wherever possible for best bandwidth savings.</p>
 
</div>

</body>
</html>
